so I have said before that I'm always
delighted to discover that I'm wrong
when I find out that I've been wrong
about something it means I'm learning so
I may be wrong about what I'm about to
say and opening up this video my honest
opinion is that nobody is a linguistic
genius and what do I mean by this I
think it is a proven fact there are some
human beings who are born with an
extraordinary innate ability in
mathematics that is not the result of
education that they start off before
receiving mathematical education with a
very very high level of ability to do
computations including geometric
computations with a view and this is
sometimes shown with children sometimes
shown was shown with so-called idiot
savant people with no formal education
that this has been demonstrated time and
time again but and I think it's it's an
easy thing for people imagine there's a
there's a parallel in languages perhaps
because we feel that some of us have
extraordinary difficulty in learning
languages that there were a lot of
people out there who are extraordinarily
gifted that there's kind of a separate
class of humanity parallel to math
geniuses that unlike Western geniuses my
honest opinion is that this does not
exist every case I've encountered where
say one person described another as
linguistic genius and I then met the
person face-to-face and talk to them or
even when this was said to me and I then
looked at their written work their
publications or their YouTube channel
now with the Internet these kinds of
illusions are easier and easier to
deflate what I found was if you just
read their own description of how much
they studied for how many years with
what methods because these people very
often want to document exactly what I
would use that there's there's really no
genius there obviously using exactly the
same methods one person is going to get
10% better results than another 20%
maybe even 50% and that may be partly
due to the fact that the methods are not
good for the particular person it'll
partly due to you know the level of
motivation what-have-you but when you
think about what's really involved in
language learning I feel pretty
confident at this stage of my life after
having studied so many different
languages from Nakia
not just different languages but
different languages from different
language families having studied most of
them as an autodidact
some with classroom methods learning
written language so on and so forth for
pretty much all of them doing a lot of
language research a lot of language
learning and a lot of language teaching
I feel pretty confident that there
really are no shortcuts
neither in terms of the work you're
doing on paper you know in front of your
eyes outside of your body nor in terms
of the internal component of it you know
the mirror of the mind of what you're
doing your mind like if you just think
about vocabulary acquisition vocabulary
acquisition is not like balancing a
complex equation it's not like looking
at a rhythm algebra arithmetic
trigonometry there's really a challenge
for most most of us looking at a complex
equation understanding what's going on
there I completely understand how
another person may be able to
intuitively grasp and make use of that
information much more rapidly than I can
in terms of the kind of progress you
have to make in complex geometry what
have you there's a mode of thinking
there that is in no way comparable to
the challenge I had when I was learning
Korean a Jib way and I had to memorize
the names of the months there are 12
months memorize the names of the months
memorize the names of the season learn
how to make a sentence it's too hard
outside it's too cold outside
whatever your methods are the kind of
information your brain is having to
acquire there which is something any
imbecile can do of course small children
learn language you serve you know you
learn language when you're only two
years old
you're very mentally simple but also
people who have really severe mental
disabilities and brain injuries can
learn new languages too it's not really
so much about higher abstract reasoning
or what have you
but there is a process there is a matter
of doing the work to learn new
vocabulary and then practice using the
vocabulary in different contexts of
course trying to make senses trying to
make yourself understood etc etc I don't
see any any shortcuts there now okay my
girlfriend can jump any time but this is
a really my issue not her issue she just
started learning Chinese and
for that you know she's not someone who
has a ton of experience it was amazing
when we met somebody from Spain and he
was like yeah it's normal like for
people in Europe to know like three
languages because and where I'm from in
America people know one language maybe a
little bit of language right so yeah
this is true but the people in Europe is
talking but they normally know maybe
four languages that are very closely
related so if you know Spanish and
French and English
these are cognate languages so the word
elevator is going to be almost identical
in all of them or maybe they also know
Italian you know even uh you know I
remember when we were in Italy I was
going through the the dictionary room
was just blew my mind
especially when you got into technical
language different types of medical
tests medicines related things like
computers elevators technology is this
huge amount of vocabulary was either
identical to English read one or two
vowels different you know slightly
different spelling so the extent to
which those languages are cognate has to
be taken to consideration I've
experienced learning English I've
experienced learning Chinese experience
learning Japanese completely separate
language family it's not just languages
I've experienced working on Sri Lankan
pally pally in the cinah Lee's tradition
Polly in Myanmar Laos Thailand Cambodia
and then the modern languages so
Cambodian is a member of a totally
different language family from Thai even
though the next door one is mon khmer
when it's time could die lotion etc and
then in north america has already
mentioned you know would you point
create so when you have that kind of
profoundly alien language gap the word
for elevator in chinese has no
resemblance to the word replicate or any
much nothing you know even um you know
french lesya allah so the name of this
channel about the CL right and in
English we have ceiling it is actually
the same etymology they are cognate you
know there are links even when they're
not completely obvious so that is that
is true there are many people in Western
Europe who at least pick up a smattering
of several languages or they are closer
at it and that can mask what the real
challenges are in in learning a new
language you know when I have seen
people celebrated on the Internet as
linguistic geniuses have looked into a
couple of them
what I find is all they've done is
acquire freeze book knowledge of a
language through repetition so phrase
book knowledge is like very specific
you're not studying
etymology you know stating the
components of words you're probably not
studying grammar probably not learning
reading or writing ability because if
you learn whole phrases a lot of people
hype that that learning whole phrases
but if you learn only whole phrases then
your ability to read in the target
language is very very limited because
you're recognizing whole street phrase
is not a visual word so you need it all
right you need to work in to learn words
word components and so and the phrases
you need to do it all you can't just do
phrases and there are people right now
selling the language education package
saying learn the language in six months
that's exactly their point so I find
there people who have just memorized
phrases from phrase books and they've
drilled them again and again where and
they know enough about linguistics that
their phonetics are accurate
phonological II they are saying the
words correctly so it's possible for
them after only studying Cambodian for
three months to walk up to a Cambodian
person on the street and say two phrases
that sound sound pretty accurate yeah I
don't think that they could succeed in a
conversation because you never know what
somebody's going to say in response you
know like I've had that happen to me
with Chinese like I'll just you know
right to go to the bunch I'll be like do
you have these buns and yes or no right
right maybe maybe they say some comp
well we don't have any yet but maybe if
you come back at six o'clock all right
well in in terms of listening
comprehension
you never get to level 1 through
phrasebook knowledge of a language
because level one really has to deal
with scanning the language you're
hearing breaking it down into units of
meaning which in most cases is words
it's not an all language like in Korean
a jib way it's actually in create a jib
way it's a little bit different than it
is in Chinese I'm not surprised there
but even in Japanese it's totally
different from is in Chinese when
listening what are the word boundaries
you listen for good
even in English well you know the word
English is an example it starts with Eng
and that can sound like the ending of a
verb before it right so the e and is
that part of the end of one word or part
of the you know start of the next word
now of course in a need in the language
that's where native speakers and we're
not even aware that our minds are doing
that when you start studying a totally
alien language whether it's Chinese or a
jib way or something that's a real
process where somebody says something to
you in Chinese and it just sounds like
bah bah bah and you're breaking it into
distinct units of meaning which may be
individual words may not a lot of words
are just ones yes yes and I mean you see
Thai is an interesting intermediate
position because ty has all this
Buddhist influence we were looking today
earlier that that video I did at a at a
railway station here in China something
in the Thai language and in lotion also
so train station is cet'aeni lot fie so
a lot there's a lot there to work with
you're not gonna miss it
you and me Chinese maybe you're gonna
get whole church an maybe you're just
gonna get Jan like maybe that's and Jan
by the way it's written opinion with a Z
H so depending on where you are who you
talking to it could be pronounced like a
J saying the consonant it could be more
like a Zed sound you know like there's a
lot of idiolect and dialect variation
even with that one well so you know
station is just one syllable in Chinese
that's all you got to work with yeah so
the the scanning and listening and
listening part of it
but but my fundamental feeling what
language I am actually a bit of I guess
you'd say a biological nihilist when it
comes to language there's a lot of
Mythology about language there's a lot
of people people make up these stories
oh well children are natural English
stick geniuses you can learn so much
between 0 H 0 and H 6 no when kids get
to H 6
they speak English like a lisping
six-year-old they struggle to make sense
as they struggle to form complex
thoughts it is not easy for
six-year-olds to speak even their first
language it's really not you may not
have a clear enough memory of your own
childhood how hard it was to be
convincing
how hard it was to present complex
thoughts as a six-year-old they
don't learn that much in six years and
you if you go now and study Chinese for
six years at the end of that process you
don't want to speak like a Chinese six
year old either
you know I mean you don't you don't so
you know there's a lot of mythology that
way I look at human language as
something in terms of evolution it's
partly just an accident
created by breastfeeding the actual
cavity in our mouth that we use to form
these complex sounds is a cavity created
by the fact that breastfeeding the fact
that we can use our lips in this manner
which for example a reptile can't do to
make these complex sounds reptiles can
make noise it's down on their throat but
they can't man that that ooh and these
other comforts the use of our the roof
of our mouth that cavity the shape of
our lips and so on which even a very
different animal like a wolf they have
that because of wolves also breast feed
and these lizards I'm talking about
don't you know I'm saying monitor
lizards don't have this kind of complex
vocalization abilities because I learned
about how old speech works but I didn't
well right so yeah like I I took a class
on like speech production and how it
actually works anatomically but right
why why yeah why did we have all this
why do we have all same beyond the
ability to scream for help or what you
know many animals in the wild have they
can give a few different signals but why
do we have this really refined and
complex set of speech organs it's
actually related to breast feeding and
anatomically so it's a bit of an
accident of nature that way uh but then
beyond that of course we mostly talk
about the origins of purpose of language
in very culturally Laden ways well as
you say you know I in a sense I advocate
for bilingualism my own daughter is
growing up at least bilingual if not
speaking three or four languages but she
has two core languages she's learning in
parallel English and French and she
wants to study Chinese and she's trying
to learn Chinese and she's evidently
getting some influence from yet some
other languages in Europe we won't
mention her but you know she's because
she was learning German until recently -
right so it was three languages already
plus Chinese but anyway I do think there
really is a level on which we should
should is the wrong word we we would
learn language just through mimicry and
just one language and carry that around
with us our whole lives and it is really
something unnatural we're pushing
ourselves into when we try to learn a
whole parallel set of vocabulary in a
foreign language system it's not
something that comes to us easily
something comes to us naturally and I
think it's actually debatable whether or
not math comes to us naturally or
whether or not math comes to some of us
naturally you know what I mean there may
be an innate instinct or a whole complex
group of innate instincts involved in
abstract geometry and trigonometry and
calculus and algebra there may be you
know I mean but I think definitely you
have to have the kind of alter humility
to say well biologically we have a
certain capacity just by during this
period of breastfeeding and being
dependent on our parents which lasts a
lot longer for us than most other
mammals we hang around the adults and we
pick up their language through mimicry
and then we carry that capacity with us
you know but there's definitely
something unnatural sitting down with a
deck of cue cards and at age 39 or
something starting on a whole new
language and trying to activate that
infantile part of your brain trying to
stimulate that and be motivated and
focused and and get those results now of
course you can I am living proof you can
learn a whole bunch of languages but I
mean I guess what's so beguiling with
the idea of linguistic genius and as
some people have said it about me I mean
I met people who said that I was a
linguist a genius and I normally sat
down them and just talk through how many
hours per day and with what methods how
I learned the languages whatever it was
they impressed with whether it was Patty
or what-have-you
assuming like Polly as an example most
people who learn Polly do not learn
vocabulary Polly is a language like
ancient Greek or most Orwell or Latin or
what-have-you
where most people learn it in a very
artificial classroom chalkboard way and
I've pointed out to people look the
reason why you perceive me as linguistic
genius what I'm doing here is not that
hard it's not that sophisticated I just
actually memorized thousands of words of
vocabulary which is what you would do
for French or Spanish or any modern
language any normal high school study
it's just most people working on oh
don't they just learned some rules of
grammar
and kind of scrape up with every
category so maybe there are different
things people perceive as genius
contextually and I mean it's look let's
be honest about how easiest mistress
either we met my mom my mom had not seen
me in 15 years we met my mom the last
time my mom met me I probably spoke like
one language I don't either but you know
I'd started studying I guess it started
studying Cambodian you know but last
time I mom that mean my whole life was
so different I started studying some
languages you know and now my mom meets
me and I seemingly speak totally fluent
Chinese with the waitress right now in
reality what I say to the waitress like
there was a little bit of I had to
explain no no no she wants two cups of
tea my mom wanted two cups of tea not
one she wants English style tea not
Chinese style tea so there was a little
bit of chatter back and forth with the
wage was the waitress could understand
everything I said Jenny I can understand
what they said but I mean this is you
know this is not remotely and this is
not an impressive use of language when
you really think about it but my mom has
no ability to scrutinize that she's just
like wow she's seen me for the first
time in 15 years and I'm I'm able to
speak Chinese I apparently learned
Chinese in just seven months right which
there's some truth to you know my
Chinese handwriting looks very
impressive
especially if the person looking at it
doesn't know anything about Chinese
right and I mean just now I've been
writing in lotion my lotion hand rising
elope writing what's amazing which which
is a shock to me too I haven't read or
written that language for 10 or 11 years
and I'm able to write this language and
it looks fantastic
but again what does this what does
really mean so it's it's really easy for
someone for an outside observer to
massively overestimate your
accomplishments in a language especially
if your method of practice is to just
rehearse phrasebook Yuka's phrase book
phrase book usage it's a whole phrase it
make sense to the native speaker you're
talking to and so on but phrase book
memorization it won't even give you
reading comprehension and it won't lead
you into advanced listening
comprehension which is the hardest thing
to buy because in university level
courses you don't you don't really work
on listening comprehension F and so on
so yeah
ya know just from the people that I knew
in college those who were more advanced
in German I was learning German sure it
was pretty obvious to me that they just
spent more time
there's a famous scientific study I mean
you guys may know this now that I
describe it it was quoted in a famous
book it got more famous the more it was
quoted I don't really even know if I
believe this but there was a famous
study that claimed there's no such thing
as as musical genius and it claimed this
by looking at they actually studied and
tracked the number of hours different
music students to use to rehearse and
their thesis was know what's being
perceived as musical genius is actually
just the musicians who are doing like 20
hours of rehearsal more per week we're
putting in tons of time and effort and
that's being perceived as an a genius
and the other students were they tracked
them through the same educational
program they're doing like less than
half as much prep and rehearsal and
they're not being perceived as genius so
that's that's nearest fact but I I'm
skeptical that I think I think there is
an argument that musical genius exists
in the same way that your ability to
learn languages is helped by your memory
you have a good memory and also by your
drawing ability your artistic you have
an artistic mind in that same way I
think people are I think there are many
things I can help people improve your
musical abilities a lot of people just
have terrible pitch like they cannot
write you know there's a form of
listening comprehension of all the music
people don't have rhythm right to
certain extent
like yeah - is there an extent there are
qualities that can make you more of it
musically but including also just
passion and Verve and tenacity and
wanting it
wanting it more what motivates you I
mean I learned a lot of pardon me I
learned a lot of Chinese in seven months
but I'm also honest to the people that I
wasn't highly motivated I didn't want to
learn Chinese MIT I'm not gonna get in
the whole autobuyer if it was but
actually I was dragging my feet I wasn't
trying my hardest the Chinese whereas I
did add the experience of really trying
my hardest at some other languages a
study where I was giving it 110 percent
and I know how different that feels and
if the results are but if I just stick
with vocabulary and vocabulary really is
the core of learning a new language
there's no escaping it most people okay
not most academics are very motivated to
study and teach grammar because grammar
is finite grammar is intellectually
sophisticated and grammar is something
gets suited to the lecture format in
university you can stand in front of a
chalkboard give intelligent station
camera but vocabulary is way more
important problems vocabulary is
infinite it's frustrating it's a lot you
know I don't think there is any shortcut
for vocabulary memorization vocabulary
drill and you know even with vocabulary
there are the four elements listening
comprehension speaking cooperation you
know speaking ability and you know
reading and writing and so on and then
learning how it's used in a sentence and
I what isn't for every language just
that core function of the human mind
which we all do as infants and you know
you can do more effectively until this
understand that core issue of vocabulary
acquisition I don't think there is any
genius for it over there is any shortcut
and I said this about baking recently
you know I don't think anyone's really
interested in whether or not you're
nobody's are leaders in your ideas or
theory of baking they're interested in
whether or not you bake you know I mean
there is a whether actually made a good
cake or a good bread and they can buy it
or whatever you know I mean it's all
about execution there's very little I
mean language is also one of those
things I like to philosophize about it I
enjoy kind of philosophy of language but
the bulk of the task ahead of you it
really is just question of whether or
not you you do that work and if you can
find sources that are honest including
autobiographies like autobiographies of
great men have highly accomplished
people that really break down for you
how
language how they studied it honestly I
think you're gonna find that even the
people who are perceived as linguistic
geniuses actually they deal with exactly
the same stumbling blocks exactly the
same I feel struggle and they get
approximately the same outcomes for the
same methods maybe 10% change major 20%
difference but yeah I mean maybe this is
a great equalizer among humanity and
maybe we overlook that fact because of
some unique conditions like dyslexia and
how that clouds are thinking about what
language acquisition hasn't want to
consist of that's what I got to say